On February 24, 2021,
the Abakan City Court convicted
70-year-old Valentina Baranovskaya
and her son, Roman.
Both are Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They were cruelly and inhumanely sentenced
to two and six years in prison, respectively.
There is no way that it can be said
that they committed any crime.
They were just practicing their religion.
Following the verdict,
they were immediately taken
into custody from the courtroom.
Sadly, three months later,
the appeal court upheld the unjust verdict.
Soon, Valentina will be transferred
to prison for two years
and her son, Roman, for six years.
When the ruling was announced,
someone was crying quietly
because it was impossible to accept this
without tears.
It lies outside the realm of human reason
that they could possibly be “extremists.”
Why did they imprison
such an old and sick woman
and for that long?
Her sentence is the first one
in modern-day Russia
where a court has convicted and imprisoned
a female Witness for her faith
—and a 70-year-old at that.
She is also the first Witness
to be imprisoned for participating in,
not organizing, a banned organization.
Prior to this,
Jehovah’s Witnesses who were accused
of violating this article
were fined or given
a suspended prison sentence.
The main grounds
for prosecuting Valentina and her son
are once again
the Supreme Court decision,
which I would call egregious,
that was handed down on April 20, 2017.
On page 32 of the decision,
the Supreme Court specifically noted
that the ruling did not interfere with
or violate the rights of citizens
to meet together or worship freely.
Nevertheless,
the courts of the Russian Federation
who are using this decision
are totally ignoring
the language in that section.
The charges were based
on the evidence of one woman
who, pretending to want to study the Bible,
recorded everything on camera
—all their discussions—
and handed it over to the FSB.
The criminal case against Valentina and Roman
was initiated in April 2019.
Their home was subsequently searched.
Then in July 2020,
because of being under constant stress,
Valentina suffered a stroke.
She was hospitalized,
and then they discovered
that she had heart problems as well.
But despite those circumstances,
the court still decided that she needed
to be imprisoned and isolated from society.
Sometimes they had to call an ambulance
five or six times a week
because her blood pressure would skyrocket
and she would have problems with her heart.
Despite Valentina’s health problems
and advanced age,
the detention authorities forced her
to wash the floor of her cell.
According to their friends,
Valentina and Roman
are managing to stay positive
despite being imprisoned and separated.
In letters,
Valentina relates that she eagerly awaits
the time when they
will be released and reunited.
Roman is very worried about his mother.
I know that for now,
while they are still
in the pretrial detention facility,
they are allowed to write to each other.
The Baranovskiys handled this persecution
in a praiseworthy manner.
They never panicked.
They remained calm
and viewed it as something to be expected
and what every Christian should be ready for.
Every time I met Valentina,
I never heard her express
any negative sentiments
with regard to her persecutors.
She understands
what is happening and why it is happening.
But she will not renounce her faith
just to make life easier,
although she was given
the opportunity to do so
in the course of the investigation.
Even this shameful and inhumane verdict
did not frighten
Valentina and Roman.
They remain loyal to their faith.
Their friends hope
that justice will soon be restored
and that this elderly mother and her son
will once again enjoy freedom.